the accepted wisdom for a long time has
been that if you want a truly enthusiast
class typing or gaming experience you
need a mechanical keyboard and with
features like superior build quality
satisfying tactile feedback and quicker
response times perhaps there was only
one thing that could actually have made
them even better
and that would be freakin laser be
[Music]
Ek water blocks is all aluminum fluid
gaming line-up offers great custom grade
water cooling performance for an
affordable price
learn more at the link in the video
description optical key switches like
the ones that we are looking at today
promise extremely quick response times
and shorter actuation distances than
popular mechanical key switches from
manufacturers like cherry but for some
reason they remain a niche item the fact
that the big boys of current keyboard
manufacturing like Corsair and Logitech
haven't picked them up yet probably
isn't helping so we turned to bloody
Tesoro and wu ting the only three
companies we could find that are
currently incorporating them into their
keyboards to see if this technology has
a bright future let's start with a quick
look at how they work currently there
are two main types of optical switches
one uses a plunger that blocks a beam of
light and when the key is pressed a gap
in the plunger moves down and allows the
light beam to hit a sensor that
registers a key press two of our
keyboards the bloody B 720 and the
Tesoro Excalibur se spectrum use this
process with the bloody switches branded
as a light strike abbreviated as LK for
some reason well the Tesoro uses
swappable switches from gator on Gator
on guitar on either way both keyboards
incorporate waterproofing as well a nice
value for you mountain dew fanatics the
second main type flare tech instead uses
an upwards firing beam to determine how
far downward the key has been pressed
meaning instead of simply registering a
key as pressed or not the keyboard can
instead register a partial key press
similar to how an analog trigger on a
game controller can be pushed only
partway down to accelerate a little bit
more slowly than a full press in a
driving game so our third keyboard the
wu-tang one is available with these
flare tech switches in two flavors red
linear switches or
Lu clicky ones which are user swappable
and we'll start with a closer look at
this one
routing actually markets this granular
level of input sensitivity control as
analog which is not technically correct
because the keyboard is really just
registering one of 256 distinct states
of pushed down this but for the sake of
helping users understand the tech we see
why they did this and in practice the
action is very smooth I doubt that most
users would actually even be able to
notice the difference let's demonstrate
how this works with Forza 3 here you can
see how pushing down the keys that are
mapped to the steering wheel only
partway results in a much more gradual
turn while a gentler throttle press also
allows finer control of our acceleration
neat huh you'll also find a surprising
amount of customizability in Wootton one
software package which is called and no
do not adjust your headphones you heard
me right root ility not only can you
remap keys to functionality like
triggers on a gamepad but you can set up
multiple analog profiles with different
sensitivity curves since you might want
the keys to react differently depending
on whether you're piloting a tank in
battlefield or controlling a soccer
player / footballer in fifa something to
note is that this analog functionality
doesn't actually kick in until after the
two millimeter actuation distance which
is similar to most Cherry MX switches so
while looting is looking into the
ability to build a hair-trigger capable
version in the future for now the
utility can only be used to make the
actuation distance longer if you prefer
less sensitivity in something like a
turn-based game or if you're just typing
and of course all this additional
functionality doesn't mean the wu-tang 1
is automatically the best option in
every scenario let's move on to the
bloody be 720 its LK switches lack the
fancy analog functionality but it boasts
a very short actuation distance of 1.5
millimeters the shortest of any of the
keyboards in our
roundup to see if there's a tangible
benefit we had our resident csgo wizard
Etzel test out each of the keyboards and
while he didn't feel that the routing or
Tesoro were appreciably different from
common Cherry MX Reds he really liked
the quick response of the bloody saying
that while the difference wasn't huge it
definitely was noticeable kind of like
going from a 144 to a 240 Hertz monitor
in his words and we didn't even tell him
the actuation point specs before he
tried it out so give bloody some credit
here there claimed to have the world's
fastest key response might just be true
at least when comparing to other optical
solutions the MX speeds claim a slightly
shorter actuation distance at one point
two millimeters and although Edsel
didn't think this made a difference in
game responsiveness he did think the LK
switches were a bit heavier so keep that
in mind if you use a light touch on your
keyboard and this leads us into our
impressions of overall build quality and
usability in our opinion the whoo ting
one walked away the clear winner in this
department its deck is quite rigid which
often indicates a well-made keyboard and
it's understated brushed finish and
subtle logo at the bottom gives a
higher-end appearance not to mention I
really liked how this thing felt under
my fingers it was soft but in a good way
kind of like typing on boobs for
whatever it's worth and then when you
use the clicky switches it was sharp and
satisfying the bloody with its giant
blood-soaked logo on the other hand
practically screams we tried to make
this look as gamer as possible at any
cost and the keys felt a bit mushy for
my liking though edy didn't seem to mind
so that's something to note and the
build quality overall seemed solid if
unexceptional unfortunately I can't say
the same about the Tesoro I was able to
twist the keyboard way too much even
with a minimal amount of torque maybe
that's what they meant by break the
rules at $92 it isn't a bad piece of
hardware it just simply doesn't do
anything better than the other two
the
money however presents an interesting
alternative to MX speed switches thanks
to its very competitive price of 75
bucks us the routing one is by far the
most interesting one we checked out
today possessing a unique feature set
with solid build quality and customized
ability but I would probably only shell
out the 160 euros it will cost you if
the games you play specifically benefit
from their pseudo analogue functionality
or if you want a typing experience that
matches your tacky mouse mat if you were
to go get tunneled there right now you
could actually have it turned on and
working by the time I finish telling you
why it's awesome it is that simple to
use you basically press one button and
boom your connection is secured and your
online activity is kept private from
your internet provider advertisers and
the websites that you use and of course
there's the added benefit of being able
to select any country you want so you
can use websites and online services
like streaming video players as though
you are from a different country tunnel
there has a top rated privacy policy and
does not log your activity and you can
even try it for free to experience what
a more open Internet might be like with
500 megabytes of data with no credit
card required and then once you choose
to get a year of unlimited data you can
save 10% on that by going to tunnel bear
comm /l tt thanks for watching guys this
video sucked you know what to do because
awesome get subscribed to the like
button hit the bell if you want to
incessantly see every single video we
ever released your phone and your
desktop and everything it's a good way
to keep track of everything we're doing
if you want to see stuff to buy check
her the link in the video description
there's an Amazon link down there and
there's also a merch store link for some
cool shirts that aren't this one anyway
yeah check out this video which is
seeing the first video I ever made which
was on my own and it never got uploaded
anywhere and it was on a ducky keyboard
from like way back my mom filled it
filmed it on a flip HD camera in our
kitchen at the time see you later